Why we need UNIX:-
 server side operation - most of the company will use UNIX.
 
 window:- one user can login you can perform task.

 3 types OS :- 
 single user single task :- only person can login . and only task he can perform.
Ms. DOS...
CUI - COMMAND LINE USER INTERFACE
single user multiple tasks:- One person can login but multiple tasks. 
 eg. Windows- GUI- Graphical user interface. 
GUI :- Will take more time 
CUI :- execution time is less for CUI.
multiple users multiple tasks:- UNIX OR Linux- at time multiple users can login in system and they multiple task together. 


UNIX :- OS - s/w:- collections of program .--- Portable OS:- platform independent 
written C language.
1950'S
LINUX :- 1991- OPEN SOURCE .
 
 OS:- 
unix , linux....
windows , mac --
ios, android, ------mobile 

TaskS of OS:-

 memory management 
 file management 
resource allocation
device allocation 
process management
 
UNIX Shell :- program which used as an interface between User and UnIX OS. 
it is not part of kernel . it can directly communicate with server.
 Kernel :- it is master program. control resources in computer. resource allocation different tasks - habdle  
Setup:- 
https://cloud.google.com/
https://www.cygwin.com/


 Commands:-
 pwd:- current directory 
ls -l :- list of all files
mkdir name:- to create new directory 
rmdir name:- to remove directory 
cd dirname:- to go that path 
cat > filename:- to create file 
cat filename:- to display content of file 
cat >> filename :- to append data in that particular file .
cp oldname newfilename:- wil copy data from old file to newfile.
cp oldname1 oldname2:- will override data in oldname2.
rm filename:- remove file
mv filename dirname :- to move your file physically.
ln filename1 newfile2 :- link two  files.
 wc :-- count total number of lines , words, characters.
wc -l filename:- total numbers of line
wc -w filename :- total number of words
wc -c filename:- total number of characters. 
wc filename:- total number lines, words, characters for that file. 













